### NAT for Public Addresses

Network address translation. Ec2 instance has no knowledge about the public/elastic ip of the instance
It is associated externally through internet gateway

### Working with ENI and IP Addresses
(Very good lecture and hands one - worth to re watch later)
Author creates a ENI with subnet.
This ENI can be attached to the instance in the same AZ.

You associate an Elastic IP to an instance
You can re-associate it to ENI, then you can associate that ENI to an instance.
    - Detach ENI from the prev instance also and then attach to your 2nd instance
Now your new Instance will have one public that is the elastic IP attached to ENI
You need to stop and start the instance to see the effects.

After you are done, you can diassociate the IP addr from ENI
You can release the IP from Elastic IPs
Then you can delete the ENI and then instances

### Private Subnets and Bastion Hosts

A private subnet is a subnet that is associated with a route table that doesn’t have a route to an internet gateway. Resources in private subnets cannot communicate with the public internet.

Example your db instance

A public subnet is a subnet that is associated with a Route Table that has a route to an Internet Gateway (Igw). This route allows access from the Public Internet to the subnet.

private subnet can use public subnet(Bastion hosts) to connect to Internet

https://www.learnaws.org/2022/06/22/public-private-subnets/

### Private Subnets and Bastion Hosts   

Create Private Subnet
Create Route Table

Create a private instance and attach a private subnet to it
Create a public instance, connect to it, use the private key to connect to private instance
\$ ssh -i key.pem ec2-user@private_ip

https://digitalcloud.training/ssh-into-ec2-in-private-subnet/

### NAT Gateways And NAT instances Overview

These are two ways that a private instance is able to connect to public internet
Nat Gateway is managed by the AWS and other one is self managed

When you create a NAT gateway, you need to attach a public subnet to it.
You need to create entry in default private VPC (Private route table)

### EC2 Instance Life cycle

Important - re watch

When you terminate an instance, then root EBS volume, by default is deleted.

### Nitro instances and Nitro Enclaves

The Nitro System provides bare metal capabilities that eliminate virtualization overhead and support workloads that require full access to host hardware. Bare metal instances are well suited for the following:
* Workloads that require access to low-level hardware features (for example, Intel VT) that are not available or fully supported in virtualized environments
* Applications that require a non-virtualized environment for licensing or support

It's next gen of EC2 instance

### Pricing

Re Watch.

Host Affinity means you know on which host your instance will run.
You can dedicated few instances to run on a particular host.
This feature is available when you have a dedicatecd host.

Dedicated hosts provide dedicated hardware, and they give you full visibility of sockets and cores and targeted instance placement.

Q. Which EC2 pricing model would you use for a short-term requirement that needs to complete over a weekend?

A. On-demand instances are ideal for short-term or unpredictable workloads. You don’t get a discount, but you do have more flexibility with no commitments.

A NAT Gateway provides high availability and automatic scaling. You attach a NAT Gateway to a public subnet and then add a route to it in the private subnet.


## Architectural Patterns
V imp for exam. Re Watch

### On Demand Capacity Reservations

* Example - Dev env, you need to run it in the day time only
* Computation task that run on an EC2 instance nightly basis on certain days.

On-Demand Capacity Reservations enable you to reserve compute capacity for your Amazon EC2 instances in a specific Availability Zone for any duration. This gives you the ability to create and manage Capacity Reservations independently from the billing discounts offered by Savings Plans or Regional Reserved Instances.


By creating Capacity Reservations, you ensure that you always have access to EC2 capacity when you need it, for as long as you need it. You can create Capacity Reservations at any time, without entering a one-year or three-year term commitment, and the capacity is available immediately.




